### METHODS (subject to large changes pending revised algorithm ms)
SSAD ref's : Brown et al. 1995; Haegeman & Etienne 2010; Harte 2011

Locey & White (2013) defined the SAD feasible set based on *N* and *S* 
as all ways that *S* integers representing the abundances of *S* species can sum to a total abundance of *N* without regard to species identity. To examine the SAD feasible set, they used an approach known as integer partitioning. Integer partitioning is based on the fact that there are a limited number of unordered ways that *S* integers can sum to a total *N*. Hence, there are a limited number of ways that the abundances of *S* unlabeled species can sum to a total abundance of *N*  individuals (see Bóna 2006). These unordered configurations of integers are called integer partitions. By convention, integer partitions are expressed in non-increasing order. For example, the feasible set for q = 6 and n = 3 is: (4, 1, 1), (3, 2, 1), (2, 2, 2), where different configurations with the same values, e.g. (4, 1, 1), (1, 1, 4), (1, 4, 1), are the same integer partition, i.e. (4, 1, 1). In the same way, they represent the same frequency distribution (one 4 and two 1’s) and the same rank distribution (4, 1, 1). Consequently, each integer partition for a given *N* and *S* represents a unique shape of the SAD.Feasible sets can be immense and enumerating them can be untenable. For example, there are 8.9x10^14 unique shapes of the SAD for *N* = 1000 and *S* = 10, i.e. when the abundances of ten species sum to 1000. However, small random samples can be used to characterize the properties of the feasible, such as the variation in species evenness. But since we are only concerned with unique outcomes, i.e., unique integer partitions, sampling the feasible set means sampling without replacement to not overrepresent any particular member. In short, this means sampling the feasible set without replacement to provide an incomplete but unbiased view. Here, we use algorithms that produce random integer partitions for a given total *q* having some specified number of parts *n* (Locey and McGlinn 2013), where parts can take either exclusively positive or non-negative integer values, and hence, allow for zeros but where there can be more parts than individuals, as when there are more samples, plots, or quadrats than individuals. These computational tools are available in Python and R and are freely available from a public Github repository (https://github.com/klocey/partitions) and as an R package (“rpartitions”) distributed on The Comprehensive R Archive Network as http://cran.r-project.org/web/packages/rpartitions/.
As already pointed out, the SSAD allows for zeros, i.e., for individuals of a species to be absent from a plot or sample. However, only small changes are needed to allow zero-valued parts in a partition. For example, let *q* = 10 unlabeled individuals occupy a landscape sectioned into *n* = 4 parts, or quarters. The most aggregated distribution would be for all 10 individuals to occupy the same quarter, [10, 0, 0, 0]. The least aggregated would be for 3 to occupy two quarters while 2 occupy the other two quarters, [3, 3, 2, 2]. In fact, the number of configurations for 10 unlabeled individuals distributed across 4 unlabeled quarters equals the number of integer partitions of 10 having 4 *or less* parts, i.e. 23 (see Locey and McGlinn 2013). Consequently, if there are more individuals than plots or samples (n ≤ q), a random partition for *q* and *n* allowing for zero-valued parts is simply a random partition for *q* having *n* or less parts, with zeros appended to ensure the final form of the partition has *n* parts. 
On the other hand if there are more plots than individuals (*q* < *n*) a different approach is needed. To see this let 4 unlabeled individuals occupy a landscape sectioned into tenths. The most aggregated distribution would be for all 4 to occupy the same subsection, [4, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0] and the least aggregated configuration would be for 4 sections to have one individual and for 6 sections to have zero, i.e. [1, 1, 1, 1, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0]. In this way, the number of possible configurations for 4 unlabeled individuals distributed across 10 unlabeled sections is simply equal to the number of partitions for *q*. In this case, a random partition for *q* individuals distributed among *n* plots or samples, is simply a random partition for *q* with zeros appended to ensure the partition has *n* parts (Locey and McGlinn 2013). These ideas have already been developed in Locey and McGlinn (2013) and we refer the reader to that work for greater detail.
#### Characterizing the SSAD feasible set




