RESULTS

General characteristics of the SSAD feasible setBrown et al. (1995) revealed evidence that the general form of the SSAD, like that of the SAD, is characterized by a hollow-curve. In the sense of the SSAD, a hollow-curve implies that many areas are occupied by few or no individuals and that relatively few areas are occupied by many individuals. Both Brown et al. (1995) and Harte (2011) mechanistically couple the SSAD and SAD using arguments based on local niche differences and the constraint-based approach of entropy maximization, respectively. We generated random samples of the feasible set of the SSAD for ecologically realistic combinations of q and n, and examined their general features.
Statistical properties of entire feasible sets are indistinguishable from random samples generated with our sampling algorithms, demonstrating that the implementations of our algorithms were unbiased (Fig 2 and Figs 1-2 of Appendix). When generating 300 random partitions, i.e. enough to safely characterize the feasible space (Locey & White 2013), these implementations were, at worst, 10 to 100 times faster than the method used by Locey & White (2013) and were, at best, 10000 to 100000 times faster for the combinations of q and n we tested (Fig 3). These combinations were limited to values for which the algorithm used in Sage could generate random samples in reasonable time. Consequently, the algorithms we developed quickly produce random samples for values of q and n that are impractical with algorithms that sample only according to q. Each algorithm was best suited for particular values of q and n (Fig 4). For cases where all parts have positive values, the multiplicity algorithm is the fastest for combinations where q is partitioned among a relatively small number of elements (Fig 3 Appendix).The greater efficiency of the algorithms developed here allowed us to generate between 300 and 500 random partitions for 92.7% of the SADs (14786/15950) from the compilation of SAD data used by Locey & White (2013), in less than 1000 compute hours. In contrast, the method used by Locey & White (2013) required more than 10000 compute hours to generate between 300 and 500 random partitions for 60% of the available data (9562/15950 SADs).Our examination of the SSAD feasible set supports the observation of Brown et al. (1995) that SSADs are characterized by hollow-curves (few cells with many individuals and many cells with few individuals) (Fig 5). The hollow-curve nature of the SSAD feasible set increases as the total q is distributed across a greater number of elements (e.g. quadrats, subplots, cells). This reveals an expectation for decreased variation in the spatially implicit distribution of a species (i.e., most samples are going to have few individuals and few samples will have many) as q is distributed across an increasing number of elements. According to the feasible set, variance increases with increasing average cell abundance.