#### DISCUSSIONThe feasible set approach based on integer partitioning is a contextual framework for understanding how constraints influence the forms of discrete ecological patterns and in discrete distributions of wealth, size, and abundance (Locey & White 2013). We used integer partitioning to understand how the feasible set is ordered, to find the size and general features of the feasible set, and to generate unbiased random samples of the feasible set for a given a total (e.g. total community abundance, total species abundance) and number of entities (e.g. species, quadrats). The algorithms we derived greatly increase the practical use of feasible set by decreasing computing time. In addition to examining the distribution of abundance among species (i.e. SAD), we expanded the feasible set approach to discrete distributions with zero values, such as the spatially implicit distribution of individuals of a species within a landscape (i.e. SSAD). We also provided the algorithms in two computing languages frequently used by ecologists, R and Python, and have taken steps to ensure our implementations are unbiased and have provided a script to detect computational errors that can result from future code development (e.g. when a user modifies the code).Integer partitioning is only one way to examine and randomly sample the feasible set of possible SAD and SSAD shapes. Other possibilities include constraint-based programming (see  http://cran.r-project.org/web/views/Optimization.html) and iterative random walks, such as that used by Haegeman & Loreau (2008). Those approaches may not require combinatorial problems to be solved and so may not suffer from the problem of combinatorial explosion (large increases in the size of the feasible set for small changes in the total q and number of elements). However, as stated by Locey & White (2013) one benefit to the integer partitioning approach is that the random sampling algorithms are inherently unbiased and do not require ‘burn-in’ periods to produce effectively independent samples. The combinatorial approach also reveals properties such as the size of the feasible set, the distribution of statistical characteristics (e.g. species evenness, diversity, modal abundance class) across the feasible set, and connections between different ecological patterns, e.g. SAD and SSAD. However, we suggest that constraint-based programming and iterative random walks should also be examined and compared to the combinatorial approach.Our examination of the SSAD feasible set (Fig. 5) reveals that the central tendency of the set is characterized by a hollow-curve which is consistent with the empirical SSADs found by Brown et al. (1995). In that study, the authors state that the highly ‘clumped’ and hollow-curve nature of the SSAD resembles distributions used to predict the form of the SAD. The authors offer an ecological interpretation for the similarity between the patterns in terms of niche requirements. Likewise, the Maximum Entropy Theory of Ecology (Harte 2011) also argues for a fundamental but purely constraint-based relationship between the forms of the SAD and SSAD. However, in terms of their feasible sets determined by the total and the number of entities, the SSAD differs from the SAD only in that zero values are allowed. Consequently, the forms of the two patterns are not only coupled by ecological and statistical mechanisms, but are more simply coupled by the mathematical properties of their feasible sets. The results of examining general properties of the SSAD feasible set suggest the potential for a simple constraint-based explanation for the increase in variance with average abundance, i.e. Taylor's Law (Taylor 1961). Taylor’s Law also generally predicts a linear slope between 1 and 2 for the log-log relationship of the variance versus mean abundance (Kilpatrick & Ives 2003). If a feasible set based examination of this relationship consistently yields slopes between 1 and 2, then this would provide a second feasible set based explanation for a pattern that has been intensively studied in ecology but commonly observed in other disciplines; the ubiquity of the hollow-curve frequency distribution being the other.The feasible set approach taken here and in Haegeman & Loreau (2008) and in Locey & White (2013) ignores biological and statistical mechanism and focuses entirely on observable variation in the shape of empirical patterns. Consistency of empirical patterns with the center of the feasible set suggests that the shapes of those patterns contain little information beyond that encoded by the constraints used to characterize the feasible set (Haegeman & Loreau 2008; Locey & White 2013). However, consistency with the feasible set does not mean that biological processes are not operating but rather that they may indirectly influence empirical patterns through their effects on constraints (Supp et al. 2012; White et al. 2012). Indeed, if the majority of variation in an ecological pattern can be explained/predicted by a few general variables, then it is probably important to the prediction of the pattern to understand the forces, processes, or mechanisms driving the values of the variables (McGill 2010). Alternatively if empirical patterns occupy an uncommon portion of the feasible set (e.g., in being exceptionally uneven) biological processes or additional constraints beyond those used to characterize the feasible set may be relevant.Our work greatly advances the ability of ecologists to characterize and explore observable variation in ecological patterns of abundance by greatly decreasing computational time and by defining the feasible set of another ecological pattern of abundance, i.e., the SSAD. These advances allow combinations of constraint values to be examined that were previously out of reach, and hence, will help provide a greater understanding of the degree to which small combinations of general variables can explain the forms of ecological distributions (e.g. SAD, SSAD) and common ecological patterns (e.g. hollow-curve frequency distributions, Taylor’s Law). The algorithms we developed apply to frequency distributions such as the SAD and SSAD. However, many ecological patterns are also cumulative, describing the rates at which species are encountered with increasing area (species-area relationship) or time (species-time relationship) or both (species-time-area relationship), as well as the spatially implicit distribution of occupancy among species within a landscape (occupancy-frequency distribution). Characterizing and randomly sampling the feasible sets of these and other patterns may require modification of the algorithms we developed, approaches more similar to that of Haegeman & Loreau (2008), or altogether new approaches.ACKNOWLEDGMENTSWe thank X. Xiao and E. P. White for critical discussions and friendly reviews. We thank the numerous individuals involved in collecting and providing the data used in this paper including the essential citizen scientists who collect the North American Breeding Bird Survey and Christmas Bird Count data, USGS and CWS scientists and managers, researchers who collected and sequenced the microbial metagenomic data, the MG-RAST project, the Ribosome Database Project, the Audubon Society, the U.S. Forest Service, the Missouri Botanical Garden, and Alwyn H. Gentry.