#### LITERATURE CITEDAmend, A.S., Seifert, K.A., Samson, R. & Bruns, T.D. (2010) Indoor fungal composition is geographically patterned and more diverse in temperate zones than in the tropics. Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences USA, 107, 13748-13753.Bóna, M. (2006) A walk through combinatorics: An introduction to enumeration and graphtheory. 2nd Edition. World Scientific Publishing Co. Singapore.Brown, J. H. (1995) Macroecology. Univ. Chicago Press, Chicago.Brown, J.H., Mehlman, D.W. & Stevens, G.C. (1995) Spatial variation in abundance. Ecology, 76, 2028-2043.Chu, H., Fierer, N., Lauber, C.L., Caporaso, J.G., Knight, R. & Grogan, P. (2010) Soil bacterial diversity in the Arctic is not fundamentally different from that found in other biomes. Environmental Microbiology, 12,2998–3006.Fierer, N., Lauber, C.L., Ramirez, K.S., Zaneveld, J., Bradford, M.A. & Knight, R. (2012) Comparative metagenomic, phylogenetic and physiological analyses of soil microbial communities across nitrogen gradients. The ISME Journal, 6, 1007–17. Flores, G.E., Campbell, J., Kirshtein, J., Meneghin, J., Podar, M., Steinberg, J.I. et al. (2011) Microbial community structure of hydrothermal deposits from geochemically different vent fields along the Mid-Atlantic Ridge. Environmental Microbiology, 13, 2158-2171.Haegeman, B. & Etienne, R.S. (2010) Entropy Maximization and the Spatial Distribution of Species. The American Naturalist, 175, E74–E90.Haegeman, B. & Loreau, M. (2008) Limitations of entropy maximization in ecology. Oikos, 117, 1700–1710.Haegeman, B. & Loreau, M. (2009) Trivial and non‐trivial applications of entropy maximization in ecology: a reply to Shipley. Oikos, 118, 1270-1278.Harte, J., Zillio, T., Conlisk, E. & Smith, A.B. (2008) Maximum entropy and the state-variable approach to macroecology. Ecology, 89, 2700–2711.Locey, K.J. & White, E.P. (2013) How species richness and total abundance constrain the distribution of abundance. Ecology Letters. 16, 1177-1185.MacArthur, R.H. & Wilson, E.O. (1967) The theory of island biogeography (Vol. 1). Princeton University Press.May, R.M. (1981) Theoretical ecology. Principles and applications. Theoretical ecology. Principles and applications., (Ed. 2).McGill, B.J. (2010) Towards a unification of unified theories of biodiversity. Ecology Letters, 13, 627–642.McGill, B.J., Etienne, R.S., Gray, J.S., Alonso, D., Anderson, M.J., Benecha, H.K. et al. (2007) Species abundance distributions: moving beyond single prediction theories to integration within an ecological framework. Ecology Letters, 10, 995–1015.McGlinn, D.J. & Hurlbert, A.H. (2012) Scale dependence in species turnover reflects variance in species occupancy. Ecology, 93, 294–302.Meyer, F., Paarmann, D., D’Souza, M., Olson, R., Glass, E.M., Kubal, M. et al. (2008) The metagenomics RAST server - a public resource for the automatic phylogenetic and functional analysis of metagenomes. BMC Bioinformatics, 9, 386.National Audubon Society. (2002) The Christmas Bird Count historical results. Retrieved from http://www.audubon.org/bird/cbc.Nijenhuis, A. & Wilf, H.S. (1978) Combinatorial Algorithms for Computers and Calculators. Academic Press, New York.Pueyo, S., He, F. & Zillio, T. (2007) The maximum entropy formalism and the idiosyncratic theory of biodiversity. Ecology Letters, 10, 1017-1028.Sauer, J.R., Hines, J.E., Fallon, J.E., Parkieck, D.J., Ziolkowski, D.J. Jr. & Link, W.A. (2011) The North American Breeding Bird Survey 1966-2009. Version 3.23.2011. USGS Patuxent Wildlife Research Center, Laurel, MD.Scudo, F.M. & Ziegler, J.R. (1978) The Golden age of theoretical ecology, 1923-1940: a collection of works by V. Volterra, VA Kostitzin, AJ Lotka, and AN Kolmogoroff. Springer-Verlag.Stojmenovic, I. (2008) Generating all and random instances of a combinatorial object. In Handbook of Applied Algorithms: Solving scientific, Engineering and Practical Problems. John Wiley & Sons, Inc., New Jersey, pp. 1-38.Storch, D., Šizling, A.L., Reif, J., Polechová, J., Šizlingová, E. & Gaston, K.J. (2008) The quest for a null model for macroecological patterns: geometry of species distributions at multiple spatial scales. Ecology Letters, 11,771–784.Supp, S.R., Xiao, X., Ernest, S.K.M. & White, E.P. (2012) An experimental test of the response of macroecological patterns to altered species interactions. Ecology, 93, 2505–2511.Taylor, L.R. (1961) Aggregation, variance and the mean. Nature, 189, 732–735Thibault, K.M., Supp, S.R., Giffin, M., White, E.P. & Ernest, S.K.M. (2011). Species composition and abundance of mammalian communities. Ecology, 92, 2316-2316.U.S. Department of Agriculture, F.S. (2010). Forest inventory and analysis national core field guide (Phase 2 and 3), version 4.0. Washington, DC: U.S. Department of Agriculture Forest Service, Forest Inventory and Analysis.White, E.P., Thibault, K.M. & Xiao, X. (2012) Characterizing species abundance distributions 	across taxa and ecosystems using a simple maximum entropy model. Ecology, 93, 1772–1778.